---
title: Computational Linguistics 2 (CL3.202), IIIT Hyderabad
subtitle: Quiz 1
author: Abhinav S Menon
---

# Question 1
1. F
2. F
3. F
4. T
5. T
6. T
7. F
8. T

# Question 2
1. Gopi: His bag is here, and it is likely that he brought his bag; therefore he must have come.  

2. Anna: I have a deadline to meet, so I have work; therefore I don't have time and cannot go out for lunch.  

3. Mary: It was given to me as a birthday gift, so I did not buy it.  

# Question 3
1. Yes
2. No
3. Yes
4. No
5. Yes
6. No
7. Yes
8. Yes

# Question 5
a. "The first Prime Minister of India" and "Jawaharlal Nehru" have the same referent.  

b. "The present Chief Minister of Kerala" has different referents depending on the time.  

c. "There's a stranger inside our house"; _a stranger_ refers to a particular person and is therefore a referring expression.  

d. "The platypus is an egg-laying mammal"; _the platypus_ refers to all platypuses as a whole, not any single one.  

# Question 6
1. "John thought he saw a unicorn."  
    Here, the arguments are _John_, _he_ and _a unicorn_ (imaginary world); the predicator is _thought_.  

2. "I dreamt that I lost my job."  
    Here, the arguments are _I_ (both occurrences) and _my job_ (imaginary world); the predicator is _dreamt_.

# Question 7
1. a. His friend is taller than him. (arguments: _his friend_, _him_)
    b. Hindi is as common as English. (arguments: _Hindi_, _English_)  

2. a. The room is on the roof. (arguments: _the room_, _the roof_)
    b. April is before October. (arguments: _April_, _October_)

# Question 8
"Reference" talks about the actual object in the real world or an imaginary world that an expression refers to. Not all expressions have a reference.  
For example, _that man over there_ usually has a reference (depending on context); but _no one I know of_ has no reference.  

Sense is an abstract idea of meaning that captures our intuitive notions. We do not feel that expressions without reference are meaningless, so their meaning is represented by their sense. Expressions with reference also have a sense; it is the abstract meaning (not an actual object) which represents the _idea_ of what is being referred to.  
For example, _no one I know of_ means that whatever follows is not applicable to anyone known to the speaker (putting it roughly).  

In addition, expressions like _almost_ and _handsome_ have no reference, but only sense.

# Question 9
1. "tall"  
    a. My best friend is very tall. (predicator)
    b. He thinks he's tall. (not a predicator)  

2. "doctor"
    a. This classmate of mine is a doctor. (predicator)
    b. The doctor treated him for his diabetes. (not a doctor)  

3. "under"  
    a. The state of Karnataka is under the Chief Minister of Karnataka. (predicator)
    b. He crept under the bed to hide. (not a predicator)  

4. "bed"  
    a. This sofa is also a bed. (predicator)
    b. She woke up and got out of her bed. (not a predicator)
